# debian
## changelog
A log of changes in the debian packaging of filesender, not filesender itself.

## compat

## conf/apache.conf
File copied to /etc/apache/conf.d to configure apache to serve filesender files. Is copied by postinst

## config
Configure hook that configures the database

## control
Contains filesender package information like name and (build) dependencies

## copyright
Copyright file, required for debian packaging

## dirs
Dirs to be created during packaing

## docs
Specifies which files are documentation

## install
Specifies which files to be copied into the package

## links
Specifies which symlinks to be created in the package

## patches
Directory that contains patches to be applied before packaging

## patches/dbconfig-common_support.patch
This patch will configure filesender to use the database settings generated by the debian database manager.

## postinst
Script called after installation, configures database and fixes permissions, configures apache.

## postrm
Script called after deinstallation and removes apache config.

## preinst
Script called before installation, doesn't do anything at the moment

## prerm
Script called before removes, removes database (if confirmed by user)

## README.Debian
Debian package specific readme

## README.source

## rules
Build rules. uses CDBS so is quite minimal. Manually installs SQL script.

## watch
File used for automated checking of new upstream release of filesender.

# RPM
## rpm/filesender-config.php
Replacement config of filesender.

## rpm/filesender.htaccess
htaccess file used to configure apache.

## rpm/filesender.spec
Spec file, contains all required settings for building a RPM file.


