
      
      
      
      
      <div>To achieve a comprehensive insight into the usability and the interaction design of the FileSender application, three members of the Monash University, User Experience team independently evaluated the usability and the interaction design of the FileSender application. This was conducted on a test installation of the [[Release 1-5-beta1|1.5.0 beta-1 release]] code in February / March 2012.  <br></div><div>Each evaluator methodically inspected the application using industry recognised User Experience design principles (Heuristics), while performing [[url:http://www.assembla.com/spaces/file_sender/documents/c4Wgy6xR0r4AgDacwqjQWU/download/c4Wgy6xR0r4AgDacwqjQWU|user scenarios]] developed in collaboration with [[url:https://www.assembla.com/profile/wendy_mason|Wendy Mason]] from the FileSender core development team. </div><div>The findings from each evaluator were then discussed, rated and consolidated in a [[url:http://www.assembla.com/spaces/file_sender/documents/a1OZFsTdur4ywgacwqjQYw/download/a1OZFsTdur4ywgacwqjQYw|report]]. Some recommendations from this report have already been at least partially addressed during 1.5 development in the following tickets:<br><br><ul><li><b>Issue 3:</b> The message shown to the ‘Guest’ when they click on a URL of a used voucher is confusing "Voucher has been cancelled". <b>Recommendation 3:</b> Consider changing the text to “Voucher has been used”. <b>Addressed:</b> #646, #694</li><li><b>Issue 8:</b> The HTML 5 supported or non supported message placement is inappropriate. Such instructions/ restrictions should be made available to the user before they start the upload process. <b>Recommendation 8:</b> Consider moving the message to the top of the screen […]. <b>Addressed:</b> #672</li><li><b>Issue 9:</b> The Flash supported or non supported message placement is inappropriate. Such instructions/ restrictions should be made available to the user before they start filling in the upload screen. <b>Recommendation 9:</b> Consider providing the message when the “Send File” screen is loaded and placing the message on top the screen. <b>Addressed:</b> #700</li><li><b>Issue 12:</b> When JavaScript was switched off: The error message provided was illegible […]; The user was allowed to log-in even though most of the functionality is not accessible to them.<b> Recommendation 12:</b> Consider: Formatting the error message similar to the error message given when ‘Flash’ is not available; Not allowing users to log-in if they do not have JavaScript turned on and provide the error message at the log-in screen. <b>Addressed:</b> #690</li><li><b>Issue 16:</b> Feedback was not provided to acknowledge when a new recipient was added to uploaded files. <b>Recommendation 16:</b> Provide a feedback message to indicate successful addition of recipients. <b>Addressed:</b> this recommendation is already a current feature.</li></ul></div><div><br></div>
    
    
    
    
    
