<h2>Problem to be solved</h2><p>Transferring several files in one upload transaction from a user to (a group of) user(s).  All recipients will receive all files.  Sending different files to different users in one transaction is out of scope.</p><p><br></p><p><br></p><h2>Terminology</h2><p>container: the thing containing one or more files, possibly organised in folders.  </p><p>transfer: the process of getting a container from client to server</p><p><br></p><p><br></p><p>User experience and probable client-side solutions:</p><p><br></p><p>Upload</p><p>use HTML5 FileAPI.  No legacy browser support.  This probably works without too many fundamental issues but several challenges remain.</p><p><br></p><p>-we need a "transfer" concept.  One fileSender transfer can consist of multiple directories and files.  A transfer can be resumed.  <br></p><p>-drag and drop?</p><p>-how to present the selected files to users?  </p><p>-should we present upload status per file?</p><p>-needs more advanced upload status anyway.  Probably upload status for whole "transfer" and indicate clearly which file is now up for transfer<br></p><p>-pause/resume?</p><p>-selective resent?</p><p>-how far should we go with file corruption checks?</p><p>-is there a checksum that does not take a long time to be calculated for very large files?  Would crc do the trick also for 100GB files?<br></p><p><br></p><p>challenge: select-and-upload a folder<br></p><p><br></p><p>Download<br></p><p>problem: how to get the multiple files on the recipients desktop using only the functionality available in browsers</p><p><br></p><p>options: </p><p>-html5 fileapi appears to have functionality to support such downloads.  Quite likely not supported through built-in download manager (needs verification!) so requires a "click here to download" page.  </p><p>-put all files in a zip file container server side and offer that container as downloadable.  Do not compress files.  That way a performance hit should be averted.  Zip is supported by Windows and Mac standard file explorers.  Click and use.  this option would be good for "legacy browsers"</p><p>-offer individual download of files (only works with small amounts)</p><p>-create some "trigger download manager for each individual file" auto script.  Suboptimal.  Many times "save file here?" dialogues</p><p><br></p><p>what to do with direct downloads and multiple files?<br></p><p><br></p><p>Improved file verification (checksum, anti-corruption)</p><p>idea: (see email)<br></p>
